[Music]
many learners tell me that they love
reading
but finding english too slow and boring
but who says reading in english should
be boring you probably already read more
than you
think reading is more than just reading
a book it goes from facebook posts
blogs recipes labels commands on your
cell phone
signs in the road and so on reading is
everywhere we do it all the time even
reading the subtitles while watching
this video
so even if you are not a fan of books
this lesson is for you
we will teach you four practical tips to
start taking your reading to the next
level
right now by the end of this lesson
you'll understand
how reading can boost your english
you'll see that you don't need to read
the same way all the time
how to find your reading thing improving
your reading
can be fun the benefits of reading to
your personal life
and by the way in case you are new here
every week we make fun lessons
just like this one so that you can learn
english without getting lost
without missing the jokes and without
subtitles
like rita who says that even though she
lives in the usa
she could not find anything that worked
improve her english effectively
until she discovered our channel so we
will help you to achieve
your english learning goals too just hit
the subscribe button and the bell down
below
so you don't miss any of our new lessons
first things first what is reading at a
basic level
reading is identifying and making sense
of words
and symbols however there is so much
more to that
reading is an interactive process of
recognition that leads to interpretation
in other words it's a thinking process
that involves using strategies to
process a text
in order to construct knowledge that's a
fancy way of saying
that reading actually makes you smarter
it makes your brain work harder
and better while energizing it so of
course
improving your reading in english might
even improve your abilities to read and
think critically
in your native language with that said
it's worth mentioning that there are
many types of reading and you don't need
to read the same way
all the time the most common strategy
that we use
even without knowing it is called
skimming if you skim a text
you read it quickly to comprehend the
gist the main idea
this is what you do when you pick a
magazine up at your doctor's office
and go over the articles without
spending too much time on it
or when you are scrolling your facebook
feed to check if any post
is worth clicking to read more with this
type of reading
you learn through context you don't stop
and look up
every single word you learn to infer its
meaning by capturing the essence of what
you've read
let's try it you have 40 seconds to read
or skim
this paragraph do not pause the video
[Music]
now try to answer this question without
going back to the text
which sentence best describes the main
idea of the text
interesting right i'm sure that there
are words that you may not know yet in
this text
however if you read it with the singular
focus of getting the main ideas
the unknown words won't stop you now
another
highly useful strategy is called
scanning when you scan a text
you read it to find specific pieces of
information
you are scanning when you read the info
on your plane ticket to confirm your
seat number
or to find the characteristics of a
product in a catalog
you shift your attention from the
overall meaning to the structure
numbers adjectives percentages etc
take a look at these situations and
decide which type of reading
skimming over all information or
scanning
specific information would be the best
one to use
you look at the movie theater's website
to see if there's a new release tonight
you need to decide if a long article
will be useful for a paper you're
writing at school
you look at a train timetable to see
when the next train is due
you have a meeting in 10 minutes and
haven't read the report
that is going to be discussed
these strategies can be transferred to
any type of text you read
and being aware of them will help you
determine how much effort you should put
into your reading
not only that but also understanding
your level of english first
will take a lot of the weight off of
your shoulders
our next tips will help you with
choosing your next text
by the way did you notice how i
connected the words here
will take a lot of the weight off of
your shoulders the letter
e in take is what we call a silent
letter
it means that you don't pronounce it and
that's why we connect the word
take with a sounding like take a
also the letter t in lot is between two
vowels
lotta in situations like these americans
tend to pronounce it with a soft d
sound a lot of and of is often reduced
to simply
uh so i say lada not
lot of if you want to learn more about
how we need us really speak
so that you can understand your favorite
tv series
movies and podcasts as well as natives
in real life
then i highly recommend that you give
our power learning mini course a try
it is absolutely free and we will show
you what it takes to comprehend natives
confidently
in the real world sign up now just click
up here or down in the description below
do you like reading what about reading
in english
maybe your answer is no you may say you
like it
but you don't have the time or maybe you
do like it
you find it tiring reading in another
language well let me help you with that
there are many options for you to start
reading right now
the first step is to start with things
you already like or that you've already
read in your first language this means
do not
read children's books because you think
that they are the easiest
kids books tend to use strange
vocabulary that isn't actually practical
to you
furthermore the stories won't really
engage you so you'll probably give up
now the exception of course is if you
have children and you want to read these
books with them
then that is a fantastic way for you to
bond and practice together
now maybe you use different social
networks you may choose to follow
certain pages on facebook or instagram
that cover topics you like since there
are so many options
out there turn reading and english into
a habit
even if it's just a tweet the captions
of a post
a paragraph a news article or a blog
article
or a whole page of a book remember you
set the time and place to make that
commitment to yourself
for example every day after having
dinner i'll read
two tweets from cnn's account build a
habit
read every day start small and when you
least realize it this habit will grow on
you
again the key is to read what you
already enjoy reading in your own
language
so don't just start reading the news
because someone told you it's good for
learning english
if you don't enjoy doing that in your
native language
it's important that you find something
that is just a little bit more
challenging than your current level
and that is gripping enough to get you
into the habit
so here are a couple of tips start
simple
if you are a fan of books and want to
read more of them in english
look for graded readers they are books
designed for learners
in which the language was adapted to
suit different levels
besides that they have pre during and
post reading activities
that make reading much more fun and help
you to better understand the text
this is also a great way of exposing
yourself to the culture by reading
classic english
and american literature like moby dick
or the picture of dorian gray
play games in english if you don't tend
to read books but you're a fan of video
games
they can be a fantastic source to help
you to read more
lots of different games have written
dialogues and texts you need to
understand to move on in the game
they help you to develop problem solving
skills and are often related to survival
english
don't waste the chance of learning while
you have fun play them in english
read things you're interested in social
media posts
comics blog articles magazines
recipes even product labels you name it
read things you're interested in they
don't need to be books
you can also pick a particular topic you
like and not for reading different types
of text within the same topic
that is called narrow reading and will
expose you to the same language range
over and over which will ultimately help
you acquire that vocabulary
we've seen at the beginning of the video
that reading is a powerful skill to
develop
so find among the things you already
read in your first language
something that you'll enjoy reading in
english too reread
following up on the previous tip find
things you already enjoy in your mother
tongue
and re-read them in english this way
you'll feel less anxious to understand
what's going on and will be able to
focus more on the language
for me i absolutely love the harry
potter series and i reread the books to
improve my german and spanish
by the way in our recent lesson on the
queen's gambit we explored how star ania
taylor joy
learned english with harry potter on the
same note
you may choose to read the book version
of a movie or series you watch
read self-development books or articles
this genre tends to have more simple
language
and can be a great way of cultivating
the habit of reading
not to mention that if you choose a book
on a particular area of your life that
you need to improve
it will help you in other ways as well i
created this lesson on
six life-changing books for english
learners for exactly this reason
young adults books now as i mentioned i
don't believe reading children's books
makes sense for most english learners
but your adults books are another story
browse the
teens book section of a public library
in your city or neighborhood or even on
amazon
you might not even spend a penny and
will have many choices to pick from
these types of books tend to use a bit
easier language
i think that series are great because
they hook you and keep you entertained
for a long time
some examples are harry potter the
hunger games twilight
and the school for good and evil
although the language in them may
not automatically be transferable to
your daily conversations
it still helps you expand your
vocabulary understand the structure of
the language
and improve your comprehension in
general by the way
learn with the harry potter books now in
a fun and powerful way
in this video that andrea made just
click up here or down the description
below to find that
simple english finally another tip is to
develop the habit of looking up general
information
and definitions of words in english you
can use the simple english wikipedia
the english learner version of wikipedia
that has its articles written at a basic
level
or use the learner's version of english
dictionaries such as
oxford merriam-webster and longmen
you may be thinking well reading is just
not my thing because i'm a very active
person
and i can't sit still for a long enough
period of time
what if i said you can kill two birds
with one stone
you can take advantage of the benefits
of the enriching vocabulary of a book
and practice your listening as well by
choosing an audiobook
to listen to while walking or doing
other chores
or to listen while you read the text
you'll work on the development of your
listening skills
while benefiting from the language of
the chosen book
and right now you can get two free
audiobooks when you sign up for
audible by using the link down in the
description try audible for a month
absolutely free and even if you choose
not to continue you get to keep the
audiobooks
i recommend the graveyard book a young
adult book with a spectacular narration
or you could try one of the other books
on my best fiction books for english
learners list
you can choose to use reading as a
stepping stone to enhance other skills
read out loud when you do this it helps
your brain to better store information
boosting your memory retention you are
more likely to remember what you've read
it's great to combine this with the
audiobook so you get
accurate pronunciation or look up
specific words on forvo to hear real
natives saying them
record yourself while reading out loud
it may be a good idea to record yourself
i understand that listening to your own
voice may not be the most pleasant thing
but when you do this you are not only
training the muscles you use for
speaking
but also becoming more aware of how you
are pronouncing
linking and connecting the spoken and
written forms of the words
highlight words and check them later
most of the time you skim a text to
capture the essence of it
be it a book an article or a short note
you first try to understand its main
idea
it will be much harder and slower to do
so if you stop to check
every single word you don't know so the
pro tip here
is to highlight them and after you've
finished your first reading whether for
you that's a page or a chapter
go back to the text and check them using
a dictionary
take notes of words or expressions
following up on the previous tip
create your own personal bank of new
words and expressions you've learned
from their reading
and challenge yourself to use them have
them close to you when taking a lesson
for instance
or choose two or three to incorporate in
your next interaction in english
remember the saying if you don't use it
you lose it
i like reading before bed i highlight
the words on my e-reader
and then in the morning with a cup of
coffee i look up the new words and add
them to a spaced repetition system
like memrise join a book club this is
one of the best ways to motivate you to
read a book
while also connecting with others and
making friends you learn
so much from interacting with others not
to mention being able to also develop
your speaking skills
and put those newly learned words into
practice
if you can't join a club find a friend
to exchange ideas with you
ideally you read it in english and
comments in english
but an alternative could be talking
about it in your first language
it still does the trick of making sense
and processing information
learned in a foreign language use a
kindle or
other e-readers besides digital books
being less expensive than paper or
hardcover books
most e-readers have lots of different
features that make reading much more
interactive
you can highlight words write notes
check the dictionary and much more all
while reading
turn it into a game a fun way of doing
this is writing a couple of challenges
on a piece of paper
putting them in a box and sorting one to
do when it's your reading
time check out a couple of ideas try to
remember
four to five words that called your
attention on a page
finish a couple of pages set a time for
two minutes and write down all the key
points from the passage write down the
main characteristics of a character
explain out loud what you just read in
one minute
choose three words you didn't know and
try to guess their meaning from the
context
and then check them
if you are still not convinced why you
should dedicate more time to reading
let's talk about some benefits that go
beyond sharpening your language
abilities
if you have made it clear to yourself
that you won't understand 100 of the
text
this helps you control your anxiety and
pre-reading stress
that by itself makes activity easier and
lighter
reading helps you with general
comprehension not only of the language
but also the subject you are reading it
adds to your general knowledge
repertoire
needless to say that it boosts your
vocabulary right
some other benefits are that you learn
new words from context
you learn different meanings to
previously known words and start to
identify patterns
like words that often come together
reading helps you with a conversation
the more you read the more your verbal
skills will grow
and you become more able to use context
to infer the meaning of new words
and thus tend to feel more secure to use
them when speaking
when i first started reading in other
languages i was amazed to notice that i
would use the word in conversation
and not remember actively having learned
it only to later figure out that i had
absorbed it while reading
the same goes for grammatical structures
you will start to be able to visualize
them in your head
and you won't have to think about it so
much when it comes time to speak
so what are you waiting for to start
taking your english to the next level
and make it a part of your life let's
start reading right now
what have you found helpful to improve
your reading in english
leave your recommendation in the
comments below and check out other
people's reading experiences
now it's time to go beyond the classroom
and live your english aw
[Music]
all right so the first one that we're
going to look at is an american classic
i actually had to read it when i was in
high school and i have to tell you
it was one of my favorite reading
assignments during that time
now this one is more advanced it's
actually satirical like many of
vonnegut's books
and that basically means that it uses
humor in order to criticize